[Training Manual] 1/3 Chaper 8 (Raster) (#3168)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: source/docs/training_manual/rasters/data_manipulation.rst

organize your existing rasters into one catalog: one file for easy access.

To make a catalog we will use the |toolbox|.

#. Open the :guilabel:`Build virtual raster` algorithm from the
   :menuselection:`GDAL --> Raster miscellaneous`;
#. In the dialog that appears click on the |browseButton| button next to the
    :guilabel:`Input layers` parameter and check all the layers or use the
    :guilabel:`Select All` button;
#. Uncheck the :guilabel:`Place each input file into a separate band` parameter;
#. Finally click on :guilabel:`Run`.

.. note:: As you know from the previous modules, :guilabel:`Processing` creates
    temporary layers by default. If you want you can click on the |browseButton|
    button to save the file on the disk.

Notice the text field below. What this dialog is actually doing is that it's
writing that text for you. It's a long command that QGIS is going to run.

.. image:: img/build_virtual_raster.png
   :align: center

You can now remove the original four rasters from the :guilabel:`Layers` Panel
and leave only the output virtual catalog rater.

.. note::  |hard| Keep in mind that you can copy and paste the text in the

>     ``OSGEO Shell`` (Windows user) or ``Terminal`` (Linux and OSX users) to run

Reviewer: is it not runnable from any other command line shell than OSGeo (btw the spelling!)?

Luckily, QGIS allows you to do exactly this, and without needing to actually
create a new raster file, which could take up a lot of space. Instead, you can
create a **Virtual Raster**. This is also often called a *Catalog*, which
explains its function. It's not really a new raster. Rather, it's a way to
organize your existing rasters into one catalog: one file for easy access.

To make a catalog we will use the :menuselection:`Processing --> Toolbox`.

#. Open the :guilabel:`Build virtual raster` algorithm from the
   :menuselection:`GDAL --> Raster miscellaneous`;
#. In the dialog that appears click on the |browseButton| button next to the
   :guilabel:`Input layers` parameter and check all the layers or use the
   :guilabel:`Select All` button;
#. Uncheck the :guilabel:`Place each input file into a separate band` parameter-
   Notice the text field below. What this dialog is actually doing is that it's
   writing that text for you. It's a long command that QGIS is going to run.

   .. note:: Keep in mind that you can copy and paste the text in the
       ``OSGeo Shell`` (Windows user) or ``Terminal`` (Linux and OSX users) to run

>        the command. You can also create script with each GDAL command. This is very

Reviewer 2: I am not sure if this is what you meant.  Either `a script` or `scripts`. If `scripts`, `each` should probably be removed.

       handy when the procedure is taking a long time or when you want to schedule

>        specific tasks. Refer always to the :guilabel:`Help` button to get more help

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        specific tasks. Use the :guilabel:`Help` button to get more help
```

>        on the syntax GDAL commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        on the syntax of GDAL commands.
```

#. Finally click on :guilabel:`Run`.

.. note:: As you know from the previous modules, :guilabel:`Processing` creates

>     temporary layers by default. If you want you can click on the |browseButton|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     temporary layers by default. To save the file, click on the |browseButton|.
```

>     button to save the file on the disk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     
```

.. image:: img/build_virtual_raster.png
   :align: center

You can now remove the original four rasters from the :guilabel:`Layers` Panel

> and leave only the output virtual catalog rater.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 and leave only the output virtual catalog raster.
```

Reprojecting rasters
...............................................................................

Open :guilabel:`Warp (reproject)` from
:menuselection:`GDAL --> Raster projections`.

> You can also reproject virtual rasters (catalogs), as well as enabling a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 You can also reproject virtual rasters (catalogs), enable
```

> multithreaded processing mode and many other options are available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 multithreaded processing and many more.
```

.. image:: img/warp_rasters.png
   :align: center

Merging rasters
...............................................................................

If you need to create a new raster layer and save it to disk you can use the
merge algorithm.

.. note:: Depending on how many raster files you are merging and their resolution,
    the new raster file created can be really big. Consider instead to create
    a raster catalog as described in the
    :ref:`Create a Virtual Raster <tm_virtual_raster>` section.

Click on the :guilabel:`Merge` algorithm from the
:menuselection:`GDAL --> Raster miscellaneous` menu.

As we did for the :ref:`Create a Virtual raster <tm_virtual_raster>` you can use
the |browseButton| to choose which layers you want to merge.

> You can merge Virtual raster as input file too, and all of the rasters that it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 You can also specify a Virtual raster as input, and then all of the rasters that it
```

consists of will be processed.

> You can also add your own options by opening the :guilabel:`Advanced parameters`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 If you know the GDAL library, you can also add your own options by opening the :guilabel:`Advanced parameters`
```

> menu, if you know the GDAL library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 menu.
```
